A hunderd line poem 
All praise is for Allaah, The Eternal, The Maker;
 followed by His salaah upon the chosen one.
Here is the Messenger’s biography
 in poem form with succinct sections.
His birth was on the tenth of the distinguished month,
 Rabee‘ al-Awwal, in the year of the elephant.
However, the common view is that it was the twelfth,
 on a Monday at the break of dawn,
corresponding to the twentieth of April.
 Prior to that, his father passed away.
Two years later he was weaned
 and brought back safe and sound by his wetnurse,
Haleemah, to his mother. She then returned
 with him to her own family as she had desired.
Two months later his belly was cleaved open,
 though some say it was when he was four years old.
At six years and one month, while returning,
 his mother passed away at al-Abwaa’.
And his paternal grandfather, ‘Abdul-Muttalib,
 passed away while he was eight, no lie.
Then his paternal uncle, Aboo Taalib, took on
 his guardianship, and later to ash-Shaam he travelled.
 That was while he was twelve years old
 and the well-known incident with Baheeraa took place.
The best of mankind again travelled to ash-Shaam
 at the age of twenty five - remember it -
as a trader for our mother, Khadeejah,
 and he returned that year after profitable trade, happy.
In that year was his marriage to her,
 and he later consummated his marriage with her.
All his children were from her except Ibraaheem.
 The first to earn that distinction was al-Qaasim.
Then came Zaynab, Ruqayyah, Faatimah,
 and Umm Kulthoom, who was the last of the girls;
and At-Taahir, At-Tayyib, ‘Abdullaah;
 but some say each name belonged to a separate beautiful child.
All of them tasted death during his lifetime,
 except Faatimah who died half-a-year after him.
 At thirty five he participated
 in rebuilding the House of Allaah after its dilapidation.
 They appointed him to arbitrate and accepted his solution
 for putting the Black Stone into place.
 At the age of forty he was sent as a Messenger;
 on a Monday with certainty - so convey it -
 during Ramadaan or Rabee’ al-Awwal,
 and Soorah “Iqra’ ” was the first of the revelation.
 Then wudoo’ and salaah he was taught
 by Jibreel, as two complete units of prayer. 
 Then, after the passing of twenty full days,
 enormous, terrifying stars pelted the Jinn.
 Then, in the fourth year, he called
 openly to Islaam as commanded.
 Four women along with twelve
 men among the Companions all migrated
 to the lands of Habashah in the fifth year.
 The same year, they returned, but went back without blame.
 They were eighty three men
 accompanied by a group completing their total number;
 and they were eighteen women. Later on,
 in the sixth year, Hamzah - al-Asad - accepted Islaam.
 Nine years after his Messengership
 came the death of Aboo Taalib, his guardian;
 followed by Khadeejah who passed away
 after three days had elapsed.
 After fifty and a quarter years, Islaam was embraced
 by the Jinn of Naseebeen, who then departed - let it be known.
 Thereafter, he married Sawdah
 in Ramadaan; followed by
 his marriage to the daughter of as-Siddeeq in Shawwaal.
 At the age of fifty one
 he was taken by night, and the salawaat were obligated;
 five with the reward of fifty, as authentically preserved.
 The first bay‘ah was with twelve
 of the people from Taybah, as has been mentioned.
 At the age of fifty two came
 seventy in the Hajj season - and this is confirmed -
 from Taybah. They pledged allegiance, and he later left
 Makkah on a Monday in the month Safar.
 Thus, the one contented arrived in Taybah, for certain,
 having reached the age of fifty three
 on a Monday. He remained there
 for ten full years as we shall recount.
 In the first year, salaah of a resident was made complete,
 this was after he prayed Jumu‘ah - listen to my words.
 He then constructed a masjid at Qubaa’,
 as well as the masjid in the noble city, al-Madeenah.
 Then, around it, he built his dwellings.
 Later this year arrived
 less than half of those who had travelled
 to the lands of Habashah when they migrated.
 In the same year, the noblest of all elite established ties of brotherhood
 between the Muhaajireen and Ansaar.
 He then consummated marriage with the daughter of his best Companion,
 and legislated the athaan, so follow his example.
 The battle of al-Abwaa’ took place afterwards, in Safar.
 Subsequently, in the second year, combat spread 
 to Buwaat and then Badr. The obligation
 of redirecting the Qiblah came in the middle of Rajab
 following Thil-‘Ushayr, o my brothers.
 Fasting for a month was obligated in Sha‘baan,
 and the major clash which was at Badr
 happened during fasting, on the seventeenth of the month.
 Zakaah al-Fitr was obligated in it
 following Badr by ten nights.
 There is difference regarding Zakaah al-Maal - you must realize this.
 The daughter of the righteous Prophet passed away,
 Ruqayyah, prior to the army’s return;
 she was the wife of ‘Uthmaan. The marriage of the chaste
 Faatimah to the esteemed ‘Alee.
 And al-‘Abbaas accepted Islaam after being taken captive.
 And as for Qaynuqaa‘, battle with them ensued afterwards.
 And he sacrificed on the ‘Eed of slaughter.
 And the battle of as-Saweeq, then Qarqarah.
 And combat in the third year spread further
 to Ghatafaan and Banee Sulaym.
 Umm Kulthoom, daughter of the noble esteemed,
 was married to ‘Uthmaan and he earned this distinction.
 And the Prophet later married Hafsah,
 and Zaynab also; then headed to Uhud for battle
 - in the month of Shawwaal - and Hamraa’ al-Asad.
 Intoxicants were prohibited undoubtedly - so listen -
 and that year his grandson, al-Hasan, was born.
In the fourth year, battle reached
 Banee an-Nadeer in Rabee‘ al-Awwal.
Then followed the death of Zaynab, the aforementioned,
 and afterwards, marriage to Umm Salamah,
and the daughter of Jahsh. Then, to Badr as appointed
 followed by al-Ahzaab - so listen and keep count -
then Banee Quraythah, though regarding these two
 there is difference. And at Thaat ar-Riqaa‘ he taught
how to pray Salaah al-Khawf; and prayer was shortened, as reported.
 and the verses about hijaab and tayammum.
Some said and his stoning of the two Jews,
 and the birth of his lovely grandson, al-Husayn.
In the fifth year - listen and trust me - was
the slander during the battle of Banee al-Mustaliq.
Doomah al-Jandal happened before that. And also
 he wed the daughter of al-Haarith later on, and consummated.
His marriage to Rayhaanah was in the fifth.
 Then Banee Lihyaan was at the beginning of the sixth year.
After that, his istisqaa’ prayer, and Thoo Qarad,
 and he was obstructed from performing ‘Umrah as he wished.
Bay‘ah ar-Ridwaan came first, and he consummated
 that year his marriage with Rayhaanah, as clarified. 
And Hajj was obligated, though with difference - so take heed -
 and the conquest of Khaybar was in the seventh year.
The meat of domestic donkeys was prohibited
 that year, as well as the corrupt Mut‘ah form of marriage.
He later married Umm Habeebah
 and her mahr on his behalf an-Najaashee paid.
A lamb was poisoned and offered as a gift,
 and he later chose for himself the pure Safiyyah.
She came, as well as all the remaining migrants.
 And marriage to Maymoonah was the last.
Prior to that was the Islaam of Aboo Hurayrah,
 and after was the famous ‘Umrah al-Qadaa’.
And the envoys in the sanctified month of Muharram
 he sent them to the kings - so know this.
Presented as a gift was Maariyah al-Qibtiyyah
 that year. Then in the eigth year was a sariyyah
which headed to Mu’tah. And during fasting
 the conquest of al-Balad al-Haraam took place.
After it, they relate what happened during
 the day at Hunayn, and then the day at at-Taa’if.
Later, in Thul-Qa‘dah, he performed ‘Umrah
 from al-Ji‘irraanah, and he was settled.
His daughter, Zaynab, passed away and then
 Ibraaheem was born in it, surely.
And turn was given to ‘Aa’ishah by
 Sawdah for as long as she remained alive.
The minbar was made and placed conspicuously,
 and ‘Attaab led the people in Hajj.
Then expedition to Tabook was in the ninth year
 and he demolished Masjid ad-Diraar, removing its harm.
Aboo Bakr led the people in Hajj, and there
 ‘Alee recited “Baraa’ah” and decisively declared
that no mushrik would again perform Hajj, and none
 unclothed would make Tawaaf - they both carried out as instructed.
Delegations came in plenty, one after the next,
 and he swore he would not go to his womenfolk for a month.
He announced the death of an-Najaashee and prayed
 upon him from Taybah, earning him great virtue.
Ibraaheem passed away in the final year
 and al-Bajalee accepted Islaam, and his name was Jareer.
He performed the Farewell Hajj as a Qaarin
 and he stopped on a Friday during it in security.
And revealed that day was a glad tiding for you:
 This day I have perfected for you your religion.
Rayhaanah’s death was after his return,
 and the nine lived on after him.
And on a Monday he finished - for certain -
 having completed sixty three. 
He was laid to rest in the dwelling of the daughter of as-Siddeeq
 at the location of his death, precisely determined.
The duration of his illness was two-fifths of a month,
 but some say it was a third and a fifth - know this.
This concludes the hundred line poem
 recounting the life of the most noble of all creation.
May Allaah, my Lord, send salaah upon him, and upon
 his Companions, his family, and those who follow.

